---
title 		: Essential Studio for Angular 2017 Volume 3 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for Angular 2017 Volume 3 Release Notes
platform 	: Angular
---

# Essential Studio for Angular Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_3 version=site.version.2017_vol_3 %} 





## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* **Angular 4 support** - Essential JavaScript Angular components are upgraded to seamlessly support Angular [v4](http://angularjs.blogspot.in/2017/03/angular-400-now-available.html) with [Ahead-of-Time compilation](https://angular.io/guide/aot-compiler).

* **Theme switcher** - Theme switching option used to render and visualize the components in all the available Essential JavaScript themes.

* **Grid Template support** - #180044 - Syncfusion Angular Grid component supports, native Angular template binding in all the ejGrid templates(Details Template, Edit Template,..).
## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#179174 – [`Zoomed`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#events:zoomed) event is now working properly.
* \#181456 – Selection state is now maintained while [`redrawing`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#methods:redraw) the chart.

## ejFileExplorer

### Features
{:#ejfileexplorer-features}

* \#I174459, I177188 – Provided support to  “access the application root folder and display the alternate text for the root folder name in FileExplorer control”.

## ejGantt


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#181517 – Issue in `toolbarClick` event has been fixed.

## ejKanban

### Features	
{:#ejkanban-features}

* Feature to show/hide the cards based on key value mapping. It can group the cards using key value and enables to toggle the display.

## ejRadialMenu

### Features	
{:#ejradialmenu-features}

* \#175308 - Provided template support for RadialMenu items using `prependTo` property, we can add valid SVG element to it.
## ejRadialSlider

### Features	
{:#ejradialslider-features}

* Provided globalization support for RadialSlider ticks and value. Enables to customize culture based values for the component.
## ejRibbon

### Features	
{:#ejribbon-features}

* \#178783 - Provided the `cssClass` API for Ribbon, to customize the control appearance.
## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#132062, \#132560 - Scheduler is now provided with an option to allow the user to create/edit the appointments inline, by single clicking on the cells/appointments.
* \#176154 - While editing a recurrence appointment in series mode, to prevent the changes on the previously edited occurrences of this recurrence appointment - then `ignoreEditedOccurrences` argument can be set to true within the `beforeAppointmentChange` event function.
* Scheduler provides option to enable/disable the delete functionality of appointments through `allowDelete` API.
* Scheduler provides an additional option to edit/delete only the following occurrences of a recurrence appointment. 
* Scheduler provides option to drag and drop appointments from one week to another week, simply by holding the appointments either in the first or last date column for some specific delay time.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejschedule-breaking-changes}
* \#181307, \#183269 - Appointments are rendering correctly, when the current view has more than 100 appointments.
## ejSpellCheck

{:#ejspellcheck-feature}

SpellCheck control is now provided with AngularJS support, which helps to find and highlight the misspelled words from a given content, typically by comparing it with a stored list of dictionary words.

### Key Features

* Custom Dictionary
* Ignore Settings
* Ignore Words 
* Customize Menu Items
* Misspell Word Style 
* Maximum Suggestion Count 

## ejSpreadsheet

### Features	
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* \#169150, 173569, 178299, 183197 - Provided support for chart with discontinuous range.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#178270 - Issue with Spreadsheet UI while initial rendering is fixed.
## ejTextBoxes

### Features
{:#ejtextboxes-features}

* \#180057 - Provided the `positivePattern` support for NumericTextbox.

## ejTreeGrid


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#183552 – Issue in `rowDragStop` event has been fixed.

## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#F126097 – Provided support to “get the updated data source via getTreeData() method when using remote data binding in TreeView control”.

