---
title 		: Essential Studio for Angular 2017 Volume 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for Angular 2017 Volume 2 Release Notes
platform 	: Angular
---

# Essential Studio for Angular Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_2 version=site.version.2017_vol_2 %} 





## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* Syncfusion Angular components supports [Ahead-Of-Time](https://angular.io/guide/aot-compiler)(AOT) compilation.
* Our Angular components supports to load required Syncfusion JavaScript Widget as modules.


### Bug Fixes	
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#177315 - The `ejclick` and `ejchange` events introduced to overcome the issue "Native Angular events **click** and **change** triggered multiple times for editor controls”.


### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}
 
*  \#174965 -  The background-color of form editor controls in disabled state has been modified.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#172786 - Two-way binding issue when we focus out the Autocomplete have been fixed
## ejCheckBox

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejcheckbox-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejCheckBox has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead.

## ejDatePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejdatepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejDatePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead.
 
## ejDateTimePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejDateTimePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead.

## ejDialog

### Features
{:#ejdialog-features}

* The Dialog provides an option to enable/disable browser scroll when we open the Modal Dialog.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejdialog-breaking-changes}

* Dialog position will be calculated based on the target or containment element.
## ejGroupButton

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejgroupbutton-bug-fixes}

* \#172635 - Now EJ GroupButton component can be created in Angular 2.

## ejListBox

### Features
{:#ejlistbox-features}

* Provided sorting support to automatically sort the list items in alphabetical order.
* Cascade event provided to ListBox, which will be triggered before the cascaded data is populated.
## ejListView

### Features
{:#ejlistview-features}

* Provided virtual scrolling support to load data on demand without buffering huge data, it supports both normal and continuous mode.
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* #172138 – When set the MaskFormat in MaskEdit component, two-way binding was not working properly issue has been fixed.


## ejRadioButton

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejradiobutton-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejRadioButton has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead.
 

## ejRTE

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejrte-breaking-changes}

* In RTE, the paragraph tag (<p></p>) will maintain instead of empty content during initial render and even after clearing the whole content.

### Features

{:#ejrte-features}

* The RTE toolbar is responsive with inline & popup mode, previously toolbar supports popup mode.
* Responsive support for dialogs and footer in RTE.
* Integration of ColorPicker in RTE font and background color tool for custom colors and option for setting transparent background for RTE content.
* Support for removing unwanted elements and styles when we copy paste content from Microsoft Word document to RTE editor.
## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#135948, \#145839, \#129435 - Scheduler is now provided with an option to show/hide the weekend days in all views using the API `showWeekend`.
* \#173867 - Scheduler is now provided with an additional option to customize the appointment's dragging and resizing interval ranges.

## ejTextboxes

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* F129296 – Provided the option to prevent a pasting non-numeric values in textboxes (Numeric, Percentage, Currency).


## ejTimePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejtimepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejTimePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 

