---
title 		: Essential Studio for Angular 2018 volume 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for Angular 2018 volume 1 Release Notes
platform 	: Angular
---

# Essential Studio for Angular Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_1 version=site.version.2018_vol_1 %} 





## Common

### Bug Fixes	
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#199904 - Bundling issues has been fixed and refreshed on 3rd March 2018.
## ejAutocomplete

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejautocomplete-breaking-changes}

* \#179095 - The DOM structure in Autocomplete visual mode has been changed from SPAN to DIV based on HTML5 validation standard.
## ejCheckBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcheckbox-bug-fixes}

* \#196228 - Array value is now binding properly to its corresponding label element as like in the HTML checkbox.
* \#196228 - Checkbox is not unchecked when clicking on it when binding array value for checked API is fixed and refreshed on 3rd March 2018.
## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#187054 - While remove the value from the DatePicker input then value is not updated in the expression {{}} issue is fixed.
## ejFileExplorer

### Features
{:#ejfileexplorer-features}

* \#196325 - Provided virtual scrolling support for loading files and folders on demand in order to improve performance.
* \#191114 - Provided API to customize the upload settings of FileExplorer component.

## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#192255 - Provided support for checkbox selection with `frozenColumns`.
*  \#188664 - Provided support to select cells using mouse dragging.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#193809 - Grid height is set fine with `isResponsive` property enabled in empty Grid.
## ejPivotClient `Preview`

The pivot client control allows the visualization of both OLAP and relational data in pivot grids and pivot charts embedded within it. It also provides a UI option to drag fields, filter them, re-arrange them, and create pivot views at run time.

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

*  Bind the control with relational data sources along with Microsoft Analysis Services databases and XML/A data sources.
*  Build OLAP/pivot reports by placing elements in different axes of the pivot client. Reports can be prepared on the fly.
*  Use the toolbar’s various options for exporting and manipulating the OLAP/pivot report such as add report, new report, remove report, etc.
*  Save reports for later use.

## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#188294 - An improved method for adding/removing resources dynamically to and from the layout has been introduced.
* \#181299 - Support to link together the same appointment to multiple resources has been added, so that the CRUD action made on single appointment reflects on all other grouped ones.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejschedule-breaking-changes}

* \#189169 -  Appointments are now made to drag on mobile mode, just by tap holding and then moving it anywhere instead of dragging it through single touch and move.
* \##192566, #194125 - Appointment resizes properly now, when field names are mapped with custom names.

## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#195731 – The issue on node editing in TreeView template has been fixed.

