---
title: Essential Studio for Angular  2018 Vol 4  Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for Angular  2018 Vol 4  Release Notes  
platform: Angular
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for Angular  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_4  version="v16.4.0.42" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>






## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#219127 - Issue in PDF export while giving task id value as zero has been fixed
* \#213487 - Issue in updating custom column values with updateRecordByTaskId method has been fixed
* Issue with taskbar tool tip position when tool tip has more content has been fixed.
## PivotClient

### Features
{:#ejPivotClient-features}

* \#212894 – Provided support to render measure elements inside cube dimension browser either in default order or sorted order.
* \#215353 – Provided support to update pivot button details in slicer axis through filtered report bound in code behind.
## ejReportDesigner `Preview`

### Features
{:#ejreportdesigner-features}

* \#205987,\#215254,\#218981 – Provided tablix report item support to display data in table or matrix format. It includes the following unique features:
    * Row and column grouping.
    * Total support for row and column groups.
    * Filter and sort expressions support for groups.
    * Cell customization support.
    * Cell merging support.
    * Support to insert report items such as text boxes, images, lines, and subreports in tablix cells.
    * Visual cues to indicate row and column groups.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportdesigner-bug-fixes}

* \#216844 - Fixed the content overflow issue in summary row property of grid report items.
* \#218559 - Resolved the schema version issue to save the report with the respective schema version instead of 2010 XML namespace by default. 
* \#216246 - Fixed the report preview failure when the text from the web designer contains hexadecimal or Unicode values.
## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#219463 - Issue in exporting filtered data with filterOperators as Equal or NotEqual has been fixed
* \#217739 - Issue in updateRecordByIndex public method with batch editing has been fixed.
* \#216627 - Now it is possible to get the hidden column field value in actionComplete event arguments
* \#216853 - Issue in search text box with multiple tree grid in same page has been fixed.
* \#214546 - Issue in updating column width dynamically has been fixed


