---
title: Essential Studio for Angular  2018 Volume 2 Service pack 1 Release Notes
description: Essential Studio for Angular  2018 Volume 2 Service pack 1 Release Notes
platform: Angular
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for Angular Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_2_sp1  version="v16.2.0.46" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>






## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#209901 – Provided support to sort different date formats in FileExplorer component. 
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#208330 - Now it is possible to use EJ2 context menu and EJ1 Gantt components in the same page without any issues.
* \#206384 - In Gantt dialog, UI of resource tab and predecessor tab has been optimized to improve user experience.
* \#205709 - Now it is possible to update the date value of the task which has task dependencies, using `updateRecordByTaskId` method.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#208134 - Issue with custom fields in edit dialog of resource view in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#F138054 - Now it is possible to update the header format of the hour timescale dynamically without any issues.
* \#F137979 - Issue with adding new record using custom context menu in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#207281, F138076 - Now the property value for `toolbarSettings.toolbarItems` can be defined as collection of `ej.Gantt.ToolbarItems` enumeration type.
* \#207114 - Issue in custom dropdown control in Gantt edit dialog with dropdown data as integer value has been fixed.
* \#206486, F137757 - Issue in exporting parent task with a milestone as child item has been fixed.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#209270 - Added missing parameters for `pasteContent` method
## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#205681 - Issue in updating data source with total summary rows has been fixed.
