---
title: Essential Studio for Angular  2018 Volume 3 beta Release Notes (Beta)
description: Essential Studio for Angular  2018 Volume 3 beta Release Notes (Beta)
platform: Angular
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for Angular Release Notes (Beta)

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_3_beta  version="v16.3.0.17" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>






## ejAutocomplete

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#212352 - Provided support for customized `tab index` attribute.
## ejDiagram

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* \#209242 - Gradient support for node border color is added.
* \#211102 - Support to avoid segment overlapping when executing the hierarchical tree layout with multiple parents is added.
## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#209901 – Provided support to sort different date formats in the file explorer component. 
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#154668, \#188887 - The Gantt control now supports histogram view for resource allocation. User can track the resource allocation in the project using the resource histogram view.
* \#169548, \#194187, \#197377 - Now it is possible to display the unscheduled tasks in Gantt.
* \#208948, \#F138124 - Now it is possible to highlight the working time range and non-working time range in Gantt.
* \#206384 - In Gantt dialog, the resource tab and predecessor tab UI design has been optimized to improve user experience.
* \#205709 - Now it is possible to update the date value of the task which has task dependencies, using `updateRecordByTaskId` method.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#208330 - Now it is possible to use EJ2 context menu and EJ1 Gantt components in the same page without any issues.
* \#213487 - Issue in updating custom column values with `updateRecordByTaskId` method has been fixed.
* \#213037 - Alignment issue with Gantt timeline header has been fixed.
* \#208134 - Issue with custom fields in edit dialog of resource view in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#F138054 - Now it is possible to update the header format of the hour timescale dynamically without any issues.
* \#F137979 - Issue with adding new record using custom context menu in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#207281, F138076 - Now the property value for `toolbarSettings.toolbarItems` can be defined as collection of `ej.Gantt.ToolbarItems` enumeration type.
* \#207114 - Issue in custom dropdown control in Gantt edit dialog with dropdown data as integer value has been fixed.
* \#206486, F137757 - Issue in exporting parent task with a milestone as child item has been fixed.
* \#212778 - Issue in PDF export with task dependencies and milestones enabled has been fixed.
* Issue in displaying tasks with duration value as `0` in resource view Gantt has been fixed.

## ejKanban

### Features
{:#ejkanban-features}

*	\#189927, \#177568, \#203750, \#207002, \#F129307, \#F134895 - Provided support to change the swimlane header's row text based on `swimlaneKey` value mapping in swimlane `headers` . Also, provided support for show/hide empty swimlane in the Kanban board.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#212714 – Issue with Kanban mobile swipe has been fixed.
## ejMap

### Features
{:#ejmap-features}

* Support has been provided to customize the data labels using properties.
## ejMenu

### Features
{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#211349 - Console error is no longer thrown when referring menu component alone in the Angular platform.

## ejRangeNavigator

### Features
{:#ejrangenavigator-features}
 
* Support has been provided to hide the intersecting labels.
* Support has been provided to include or exclude the first day of the next month in the selected data.
## ejReportDesigner `Preview`

The report designer component for angular platform allows users to create and edit RDL standard reports.

### Features
{:#ejreportdesigner-features}

* **Data sources**: Supports a wide range of data sources to explore data using connections to major data providers such as Microsoft SQL server, Oracle, OLEDB, and ODBC.

* **Report items**: Provides clear data visualization using report items such as built-in parameters, including charts, grids, pivot grids, subreports, textboxes, images, lines, and rectangles.

* **Report parameter**: Connects related reports and filters data in queries.

* **Image manager**: Supports managing embedded images in the report.

* **Property panel**: Allows users to view and modify configurations of selected report item.

* **Expression**: Built-in expression editor to create expressions with RDL standard to specify or calculate values for parameters, queries, filters, report item properties, groups, sorts, images, and dynamic page header and footer content.


## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#209270 - Added missing parameters for `pasteContent` method.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#206811, \#212562 - Now it is possible to search records along with its parent record.
* \#188259, \#195994 - Batch edit and batch save support has been implemented in TreeGrid.

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#205681 - Issue in updating data source with total summary rows has been fixed.
* \#211707 - Issue with column resizing action in Firefox browser has been fixed.
## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#203297 - Provided an option to prevent parent node from expanding while adding a node in the tree view control.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#210388 – Issue with “when clicking the tree element along with other HTML content above the tree view, page scrolls automatically” has been fixed.

