---
title: Essential Studio for Angular 2018 Volume 2 Release Notes
description: Essential Studio for Angular 2018 Volume 2 Release Notes
platform: Angular
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for Angular Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_2  version="v16.2.0.41" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information.   
</div>






## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#198401 - Now it is possible to enable/disable the automatic update of schedule date values in Gantt.
* \#198322 - The Gantt control now provides the support to filter column with multiple predicates dynamically.
* \#F135428 - The Gantt control now provides the support to update the data source dynamically in resource allocation view.
* Now it is possible to update a task dynamically in resource allocation view in Gantt.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#205646 - Issue with `searchItem` method has been fixed.
* \#203527 - Issue with multiple selection in resource allocation view has been fixed.
* \#200693 - Now the `rowSelected` event triggered properly on mouse click action.
* \#199049 - Issue with dependency tasks validation on manual taskbar editing has been fixed. 
* \#198369 - Auto focusing issue in Gantt on toolbar click action has been fixed.
* \#198543 - Task label overlapping issue in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#206486, F137757 - Issue in exporting parent task with a milestone child task has been fixed.
* \#207281 - Now, `toolbarSettings.toolbarItems` value can be defined as collection of `ej.Gantt.ToolbarItems` value.
* \#F137979 - Now, new task can be added in resource view by using context menu without any issue.

## ejMaskEdit

### Features
{:#ejmaskedit-features}

* \#196363 – Provided support in MaskEdit component for mobile devices.

## ejNumericTextBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejnumerictextbox-bug-fixes}

* \#199158 - NumericTextBox throws script error when increment or decrement button is clicked issue has been fixed.

* \#199158 - Issue with setting value ‘9.999’ in NumericTextBox has been fixed.

## ejSchedule

###  Breaking Changes
{:#ejschedule-breaking-changes}

*  We have now integrated into our source - the time conversion process of appointment’s start and end time to Universal (UTC) time before updating to database; and another conversion of the same to the local time on initial fetch up from database before assigning to Schedule `dataSource`. Therefore, the explicit appointment time conversions from application end is no more needed.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSchedule-bug-fixes}

*  \#201736: Schedule can now be exported properly to PDF format when setting the specific current view.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* Now it is possible to expand/collapse total summary and customize the total summary height in TreeGrid.
* \#198322 - The TreeGrid control now provides the support to filter column with multiple predicates dynamically.
* \#195738 - Now it is possible to customize the detail template column width in TreeGrid.
* \#195133 - The TreeGrid control now provides support to perform CRUD operations through data manager using URL and WebAPI adaptors.

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#197718 - Issue with column validation on row add action has been fixed.
* \#197216 – Alignment issue in frozen column with text wrap enabled mode has been fixed.
* \#204996 - Issue in inline editing with command columns has been fixed.
* \#205681 - Issue in updating data source with total summary rows has been fixed.
