angular/RichTextEditor/Working-with-Tables.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Working with Tables opreation
description: Working with Tables customization
platform: Angular
control: RichTextEditor
documentation: ug
---
# Working with Tables

The editor provides tools that make to work with tables in your content. You can add, edit, and remove the table as well as perform other table related tasks.

## Create a Table

By default, [Insert Table](http://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejrte#members:tools-tables) tool is enabled in the editor’s toolbar. There are two ways to insert a table into the editor’s content.

* [Insert a table](#insert-a-table)
* [Insert a custom table](#custom-table)

{% highlight html %}

<textarea id="texteditor" ej-rte [(toolsList)]="toolslist" [(tools)]="tools" [value]="val"></textarea>

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight html %}

import {Component} from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'sd-home',
  templateUrl: 'app/components/rte/rte.component.html'
})
export class RTEComponent {
    val: string;
    toolslist: any;
    tools: Object;
    constructor() {
        this.val = "The RichTextEditor (RTE) control enables you to edit the contents with insert table and images," + " it also provides a toolbar that helps to apply rich text formats to the content entered in the TextArea.";
        this.toolslist = ["tables"];
        this.tools = {
            tables: ["createTable", "addRowAbove", "addRowBelow", "addColumnLeft", "addColumnRight", "deleteRow", "deleteColumn", "deleteTable"]
        };
    }
}

{% endhighlight %}

## Insert a Table

You can insert a basic table by selecting the “Insert Table” tool from toolbar and drag the cursor over the grid until you highlight the number of columns and rows you want. A table can be inserted as large as with ten columns and eight rows (10 * 8 cells). When you finish inserting tables, click in a cell and start typing or insert an image.

![](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img1.png)


N> If you want to make any adjustment with drawn table, you can [add/remove rows and columns](#insert-and-delete-a-row-or-column). 

### Custom Table

You can use custom table tools to insert tables with custom behaviors. You can create a table with more than ten columns and eight rows, as well as set the table related attributes (such as width, height, cell spacing/padding, and more) using the custom table dialog.  

![](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img2.png)


## Insert and Delete a Row or Column

You can choose the following options to modify the inserted table from the toolbar, it will be enabled when you’re in table cell.

* Add a row above
* Insert row below
* Insert column left
* Insert column right
* Delete a column
* Delete a row

![](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img3.png)


N> You can also quickly add a new row by clicking on the lower-right cell of the table and pressing the Tab key.

## Format a Table

After you create a table, you can format the entire table by using **Table** **Properties** dialog. In the Table Properties dialog, set or modify each table styles to apply the styles to table elements. 

* Table - width, height, style, border, and alignment.
* Cell - border, spacing, and padding.
* Row - height, border, and text align.

![](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img4.png)


N> When you click in a table cell, the **Table** **Properties** option will be enabled under **Table** tool on the editor’s toolbar.

## Delete a table

To delete a table from your content, focus on the table and select “Delete a Table” tool from toolbar. It will delete the entire table with all formatting content.

![](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img9.png)


N> To delete the table contents alone, select the required content of the table which you want to delete and press Delete key. All the content disappears but the rows and columns remain along with its formatting.

Commit message:

SEO-176113-Image-Alt-Text-Angular

angular/RichTextEditor/Working-with-Tables.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Working with Tables | Angular RichTextEditor | Syncfusion
description: Learn here about Working with Tables in Syncfusion Essential Angular RichTextEditor Control, its elements, and more.
platform: Angular
control: RichTextEditor
documentation: ug
---
# Working with Tables in Angular RichTextEditor

The editor provides tools that make to work with tables in your content. You can add, edit, and remove the table as well as perform other table related tasks.

## Create a Table

By default, [Insert Table](http://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejrte#members:tools-tables) tool is enabled in the editor’s toolbar. There are two ways to insert a table into the editor’s content.

* [Insert a table](#insert-a-table)
* [Insert a custom table](#custom-table)

{% highlight html %}

<textarea id="texteditor" ej-rte [(toolsList)]="toolslist" [(tools)]="tools" [value]="val"></textarea>

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight html %}

import {Component} from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'sd-home',
  templateUrl: 'app/components/rte/rte.component.html'
})
export class RTEComponent {
    val: string;
    toolslist: any;
    tools: Object;
    constructor() {
        this.val = "The RichTextEditor (RTE) control enables you to edit the contents with insert table and images," + " it also provides a toolbar that helps to apply rich text formats to the content entered in the TextArea.";
        this.toolslist = ["tables"];
        this.tools = {
            tables: ["createTable", "addRowAbove", "addRowBelow", "addColumnLeft", "addColumnRight", "deleteRow", "deleteColumn", "deleteTable"]
        };
    }
}

{% endhighlight %}

## Insert a Table

You can insert a basic table by selecting the “Insert Table” tool from toolbar and drag the cursor over the grid until you highlight the number of columns and rows you want. A table can be inserted as large as with ten columns and eight rows (10 * 8 cells). When you finish inserting tables, click in a cell and start typing or insert an image.

![Insert a Table in Angular RichTextEditor](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img1.png)


N> If you want to make any adjustment with drawn table, you can [add/remove rows and columns](#insert-and-delete-a-row-or-column). 

### Custom Table

You can use custom table tools to insert tables with custom behaviors. You can create a table with more than ten columns and eight rows, as well as set the table related attributes (such as width, height, cell spacing/padding, and more) using the custom table dialog.  

![Custom Table in Angular RichTextEditor](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img2.png)


## Insert and Delete a Row or Column

You can choose the following options to modify the inserted table from the toolbar, it will be enabled when you’re in table cell.

* Add a row above
* Insert row below
* Insert column left
* Insert column right
* Delete a column
* Delete a row

![Insert and Delete a Row or Column in Angular RichTextEditor](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img3.png)


N> You can also quickly add a new row by clicking on the lower-right cell of the table and pressing the Tab key.

## Format a Table

After you create a table, you can format the entire table by using **Table** **Properties** dialog. In the Table Properties dialog, set or modify each table styles to apply the styles to table elements. 

* Table - width, height, style, border, and alignment.
* Cell - border, spacing, and padding.
* Row - height, border, and text align.

![Format a Table in Angular RichTextEditor](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img4.png)


N> When you click in a table cell, the **Table** **Properties** option will be enabled under **Table** tool on the editor’s toolbar.

## Delete a table

To delete a table from your content, focus on the table and select “Delete a Table” tool from toolbar. It will delete the entire table with all formatting content.

![Delete a Table in Angular RichTextEditor](WorkingwithTables_images/WorkingwithTables_img9.png)


N> To delete the table contents alone, select the required content of the table which you want to delete and press Delete key. All the content disappears but the rows and columns remain along with its formatting.
