angular/Splitter/How-To.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Syncfusion Splitter How To section
description: How To
platform: Angular
control: Splitter
documentation: ug
---

# How To

## Modify SplitBar size?

SplitBar can be customized by using **cssClass** in the Splitter component. The following steps explain the implementation of **changing splitBar size** in the Splitter component.

In the HTML page set the corresponding **&lt;div&gt;** element for rendering Splitter component.


{% highlight html %}

    <ej-splitter  id="splitter" [properties]="proper" height="280" e-width="600" [cssClass]="cssClass">
        <div>
            <div style="padding: 0px 15px;">
                <h3 class="h3">Tools </h3>
                Essential Tools is an collection of user interface components used to create interactive JavaScript applications.
            </div>
        </div>
        <div>
            <div style="padding: 0px 15px;">
                <h3 class="h3">Grid </h3>
                Essential JavaScript Grid offers full featured a Grid control with extensive support for Grouping and the display of hierarchical data.
            </div>
        </div>
    </ej-splitter>
        
{% endhighlight %}

Define **“cssClass”** in constructor file.

{% highlight javascript %}

    export class AppComponent {
        proper:any;
        cssClass:any;   
        constructor() {
            this.proper =[{ paneSize: "50%" }, {}];
        this.cssClass ="customClass";
        }
    }
    
{% endhighlight %}

Customize the **SplitBar** by setting **CSS** properties using cssClass.

{% highlight css %}

    .customClass.e-splitter .e-splitbar.e-h-bar {
        width: 16px;
    }
    .customClass.e-splitter .e-splitbar > .e-icon:before {
        font-size: 18px;
    }

{% endhighlight %}

The output for **Splitter** after customizing the CSS class.

![Modified split bar](How To_images\HowTo_img1.png) 

## Make Splitter with other components Responsive?

In General, any components within the splitter is not responsive while you have set responsive property of that component. But You can make splitter with inner components Responsive by using “resize” event of Splitter. For example, if you have Splitter inside the Splitter, innerSplitter is not responsive. If you resize the outerSplitter, innerSplitter is not responsive when you have set “isResponsive” is true. Because isResponsive will word whenever the window resize event occurs. On resizing the splitter will not trigger any event related to window resizing and so you need to manually resize the elements inside the splitter.

To achieve responsiveness of innerSplitter, you have set **“resize”** event for outerSplitter. While resizing the outerSplitter, the resize event is triggered. You can call **“windowResized”** method to make responsiveness of innerSplitter within the resize event. 

In the HTML page set the corresponding **&lt;div&gt;** element for rendering Splitter component.

{% highlight html %}

    <ej-splitter id="outterSpliter" [properties]="proper" height="250" width="50%" [isResponsive]="responsive1" (resize)="resize($event)">
        <ej-splitter id="innerSpliter" [isResponsive]="responsive2">
            <div>
                <div class="cont">Pane 1 </div>
            </div>
            <div>
                <div class="cont">Pane 2 </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div>
            <div class="cont">
                <h3>GRENOBLE</h3>
                The capital city of the French Alps and a major scientific center surrounded by many ski resorts, host of the Winter Olympics in 1968.
            </div>
        </div>
    </ej-splitter>
    
{% endhighlight %}

Define **“isResponsive”** and **“properties”** in constructor file.

{% highlight javascript %}

    export class AppComponent {
     responsive1:any;
     responsive2:any;
     proper:any;   
	 constructor() {
	  this.proper = [{}, {}];
      this.responsive1=true;
      this.responsive2=true;
      }
    }

{% endhighlight %}

The output for **Splitter** with **innerSplitter at initial rendering** as given below:

![Splitter with responsive](How To_images\HowTo_img2.png) 

After resizing the splitter, output of innerSplitter as follows.

![Responsive](How To_images\HowTo_img3.png)

Commit message:

SEO-172159 - Angular Description too long short

angular/Splitter/How-To.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: How To Section in Angular Splitter Control | Syncfusion
description: Learn here all about how to section in Syncfusion Essential Angular Splitter control, its features, and more.
platform: Angular
control: Splitter
documentation: ug
---

# How To Section in Angular Splitter

## Modify SplitBar size?

SplitBar can be customized by using **cssClass** in the Splitter component. The following steps explain the implementation of **changing splitBar size** in the Splitter component.

In the HTML page set the corresponding **&lt;div&gt;** element for rendering Splitter component.


{% highlight html %}

    <ej-splitter  id="splitter" [properties]="proper" height="280" e-width="600" [cssClass]="cssClass">
        <div>
            <div style="padding: 0px 15px;">
                <h3 class="h3">Tools </h3>
                Essential Tools is an collection of user interface components used to create interactive JavaScript applications.
            </div>
        </div>
        <div>
            <div style="padding: 0px 15px;">
                <h3 class="h3">Grid </h3>
                Essential JavaScript Grid offers full featured a Grid control with extensive support for Grouping and the display of hierarchical data.
            </div>
        </div>
    </ej-splitter>
        
{% endhighlight %}

Define **“cssClass”** in constructor file.

{% highlight javascript %}

    export class AppComponent {
        proper:any;
        cssClass:any;   
        constructor() {
            this.proper =[{ paneSize: "50%" }, {}];
        this.cssClass ="customClass";
        }
    }
    
{% endhighlight %}

Customize the **SplitBar** by setting **CSS** properties using cssClass.

{% highlight css %}

    .customClass.e-splitter .e-splitbar.e-h-bar {
        width: 16px;
    }
    .customClass.e-splitter .e-splitbar > .e-icon:before {
        font-size: 18px;
    }

{% endhighlight %}

The output for **Splitter** after customizing the CSS class.

![Modified split bar](How To_images\HowTo_img1.png) 

## Make Splitter with other components Responsive?

In General, any components within the splitter is not responsive while you have set responsive property of that component. But You can make splitter with inner components Responsive by using “resize” event of Splitter. For example, if you have Splitter inside the Splitter, innerSplitter is not responsive. If you resize the outerSplitter, innerSplitter is not responsive when you have set “isResponsive” is true. Because isResponsive will word whenever the window resize event occurs. On resizing the splitter will not trigger any event related to window resizing and so you need to manually resize the elements inside the splitter.

To achieve responsiveness of innerSplitter, you have set **“resize”** event for outerSplitter. While resizing the outerSplitter, the resize event is triggered. You can call **“windowResized”** method to make responsiveness of innerSplitter within the resize event. 

In the HTML page set the corresponding **&lt;div&gt;** element for rendering Splitter component.

{% highlight html %}

    <ej-splitter id="outterSpliter" [properties]="proper" height="250" width="50%" [isResponsive]="responsive1" (resize)="resize($event)">
        <ej-splitter id="innerSpliter" [isResponsive]="responsive2">
            <div>
                <div class="cont">Pane 1 </div>
            </div>
            <div>
                <div class="cont">Pane 2 </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div>
            <div class="cont">
                <h3>GRENOBLE</h3>
                The capital city of the French Alps and a major scientific center surrounded by many ski resorts, host of the Winter Olympics in 1968.
            </div>
        </div>
    </ej-splitter>
    
{% endhighlight %}

Define **“isResponsive”** and **“properties”** in constructor file.

{% highlight javascript %}

    export class AppComponent {
     responsive1:any;
     responsive2:any;
     proper:any;   
	 constructor() {
	  this.proper = [{}, {}];
      this.responsive1=true;
      this.responsive2=true;
      }
    }

{% endhighlight %}

The output for **Splitter** with **innerSplitter at initial rendering** as given below:

![Splitter with responsive](How To_images\HowTo_img2.png) 

After resizing the splitter, output of innerSplitter as follows.

![Responsive](How To_images\HowTo_img3.png)
