angular/Kanban/Drag-and-Drop.md, before:

---
layout: post
title:  Drag and Drop
description: Drag and Drop
documentation: ug
platform: Angular
keywords: drag and drop,kanban drag and drop
---

# Drag and Drop

By default [`allowDragAndDrop`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejkanban#members:allowdraganddrop) is true.Cards can be transited from one column to another column, by dragging and dropping. And it has drop position indicator which enables easier positioning of cards

N> It is not possible transit cards to other swim lanes through Drag and Drop.

## Prioritization of cards

Prioritizing cards is easy with drag-and-drop re-ordering that helps you to categorize most important work at the top.Cards can be categorized with priority by mapping specific database field into [`fields.priority`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejkanban#members:fields-priority) property.

`RankId` defined in the dataSource which is consist priority of cards. The `RankId` will be changed while card ordering changes through `Drag and Drop` and `Editing`.

The following code example describes the above behavior.

{% highlight html %}

<ej-kanban [dataSource]="kanbanData" keyField="Status" fields.content="Summary" fields.primaryKey="Id" fields.priority="RankId">
    <e-kanban-columns>
        <e-kanban-column key="Open" headertext="Backlog"></e-kanban-column>
        <e-kanban-column key="InProgress" headertext="In Progress"></e-kanban-column>
        <e-kanban-column key="Close" headertext="Done"></e-kanban-column>
    </e-kanban-columns>
</ej-kanban>

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight html %}

import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { NorthwindService } from '../../services/northwind.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'ej-app',
  templateUrl: 'app/components/kanban/default.component.html',
  providers: [NorthwindService]
})
export class DefaultComponent {
  public kanbanData: any;
    constructor(private northwindService: NorthwindService) {
        this.kanbanData = northwindService.getTasks();
    }
}

{% endhighlight %}

The following output is displayed as a result of the above code example.

![](Drag_and_Drop_images/drag_and_drop_img1.png)

Commit message:

SEO-195926-Angular-Tab-Page-not-found

angular/Kanban/Drag-and-Drop.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Drag and Drop in Angular Kanban Control | Syncfusion
description: Learn here about Drag and Drop with Syncfusion Essential Angular Kanban control, its elements, and more.
documentation: ug
platform: Angular
keywords: drag and drop,kanban drag and drop
---

# Drag and Drop in Angular Kanban Control

By default [`allowDragAndDrop`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejkanban#members:allowdraganddrop) is true.Cards can be transited from one column to another column, by dragging and dropping. And it has drop position indicator which enables easier positioning of cards

N> It is not possible transit cards to other swim lanes through Drag and Drop.

## Prioritization of cards

Prioritizing cards is easy with drag-and-drop re-ordering that helps you to categorize most important work at the top.Cards can be categorized with priority by mapping specific database field into [`fields.priority`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejkanban#members:fields-priority) property.

`RankId` defined in the dataSource which is consist priority of cards. The `RankId` will be changed while card ordering changes through `Drag and Drop` and `Editing`.

The following code example describes the above behavior.

{% highlight html %}

<ej-kanban [dataSource]="kanbanData" keyField="Status" fields.content="Summary" fields.primaryKey="Id" fields.priority="RankId">
    <e-kanban-columns>
        <e-kanban-column key="Open" headertext="Backlog"></e-kanban-column>
        <e-kanban-column key="InProgress" headertext="In Progress"></e-kanban-column>
        <e-kanban-column key="Close" headertext="Done"></e-kanban-column>
    </e-kanban-columns>
</ej-kanban>

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight html %}

import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { NorthwindService } from '../../services/northwind.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'ej-app',
  templateUrl: 'app/components/kanban/default.component.html',
  providers: [NorthwindService]
})
export class DefaultComponent {
  public kanbanData: any;
    constructor(private northwindService: NorthwindService) {
        this.kanbanData = northwindService.getTasks();
    }
}

{% endhighlight %}

The following output is displayed as a result of the above code example.

![](Drag_and_Drop_images/drag_and_drop_img1.png)
